Bucknell University
Postdoctoral Fellow in Digital Scholarship

Thanks to the generous support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Bucknell University is awarding a postdoctoral fellowship to a scholar working with emerging trends in digital scholarship and pedagogy. Areas of disciplinary specialization are open, but candidates with experience working on interdisciplinary projects are strongly preferred. Appointment will be for two years, effective on or after July 1, 2015.

As a member of the professional staff of Instructional Technology (ITEC) at Bucknell, the fellow will explore scholarly applications of emerging technologies by partnering with Bucknell faculty, the Digital Scholarship Coordinator, Instructional Technologists and Librarians to foster innovative digital projects at the University. The successful candidate will help advance Bucknell’s engagement with digital scholarship by advocating for transformative scholarly and pedagogical practices. At Bucknell “digital scholarship” is defined as any scholarly activity that makes extensive use of one or more of the new possibilities for teaching, learning and research opened up by the unique affordances of digital media. These include, but are not limited to, new forms of collaboration, new forms of publication, and new methods for visualizing and analyzing data.

Depending on the candidate’s experience and interests, their responsibilities may include:

	Work with the ITEC team to plan and oversee the daily operations (programming, outreach, student support) of the Digital Scholarship Center. The space supports faculty project development, discussion, experimentation, and training.
	Research and report on innovative learning and research spaces at other colleges--including, key components, design elements, and faculty/student feedback.
	Explore new trends in data management to help develop best practices for the intake and maintenance of research data on campus.
	Consult with faculty across the disciplines to help them learn and adopt new ways of incorporating digital content and technologies into their teaching and research.
	Collaborate with faculty, students and other staff members to design and develop digital scholarship projects - especially one involving digital approaches to quantitative analysis and data visualization.
	Collaborate with other ITEC staff members to develop and conduct training sessions, workshops, and conferences.
	Provide guidance and support for statistical software packages.
	Help mentor and advise students working on digital scholarship projects
	Depending on departmental needs and the fellow’s interests, she or he may be invited to design, teach, and advise a university course.
	Actively participate in the instructional technology profession at both the national and regional level. The fellow will have the opportunity to travel for conferences, workshops, and site visits.
	Instructional Technology Enhancing the Curriculum (ITEC) at Bucknell is a ten-member team with various educational backgrounds and interests. As part of the Library & Information Technology and housed in Bertrand Library, the heart of academic life on campus, we partner with faculty to drive the effective integration of technology to enhance teaching, learning, and research.

The salary range for this benefits-eligible position is $55,000 to $58,000 per year.

Minimum Qualifications:

	Ph.D. in the social sciences or humanities; if a Ph.D. has not yet been received, all work toward the degree (including dissertation defense and final dissertation editing) must be completed before starting the fellowship.
	Areas of disciplinary specialization are open.  Scholars with broad interdisciplinary interests are strongly encouraged to apply.
Preferred Qualifications

	Record of innovation and creativity with digital scholarship.
	Advanced knowledge of emerging media and communication literacies.
	Technical aptitude and ability to quickly learn and adapt to new technology platforms and systems, including but not limited to those related to quantitative and data analysis tools, online writing environments, and new publication platforms.
	Ability to collaborate with faculty, staff, and students on large-scale research projects.
	Excellent communication skills (written and verbal), including the ability to convey technical concepts to non-technical partners.
	Evidence of being a collaborative team player and having the ability to establish and maintain healthy working relationships with diverse colleagues.
	Ability to manage multiple projects effectively, often working under tight deadlines including taking a leadership role in project management.
	Proven record of teaching at the college or university level.

About the Organization

In August 1997 Bucknell University integrated its library and computing organizations to form the division of Library and Information Technology.  We focus on strengthening natural areas of collaboration and creating synergies among staff members.  We strive to create an information-rich environment for the campus and enjoy a strong service reputation. Library and Information Technology is committed to supporting the professional development of its 85 staff members.

To learn more about Bucknell University’s Library and Information Technology, explore our website at www.bucknell.edu/libraryIT.

Bucknell is a highly selective, predominantly undergraduate residential university with strong liberal arts and professional programs. There are approximately 3,400 undergraduates and 150 master’s degree students. The campus is in a beautiful, rural setting adjacent to the Susquehanna River. Harrisburg and State College (home of Penn State University) are about an hour away; New York, Washington D.C., Baltimore, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh are approximately a three to four hour drive. The university supports an active program of cultural events and opportunities for recreation. 

Bucknell University, an equal opportunity employer, believes that students learn best in a diverse, inclusive community and is therefore committed to academic excellence through diversity in its faculty, staff, and students.  We seek candidates who will be committed to Bucknell's efforts to create a climate that fosters the growth and development of a diverse student body.  We welcome applications from members of groups that have been historically underrepresented in higher education.